Javascript:
-Javascript is a high level interpreted programming language which is used to make web pages more interactive and dynamic. It adds functionality 
and behaviour to web pages.
-Javascript is a synchronous and single threaded language.synchronous means it runs line by line .Single threaded means one task at a time.
-Javascript can be client side(broswer based) or server side (Node JS.). We will discus here broswer based.
-Every broswer contains an engine called "JS Engine" which runs Javascript. For google chrome, js engine is v8.

History:
-In 1995, Breden Eich of Netscape developed a programming language combining the features of java and python made a new called "livescript".
-It was initially live script but to acquire the popularity of "JAVA" renamed as "Javascript". Later multiple broswer brought different script 
such as JScript,bscript,coffeescript etc...,The standards were passed to all browser to maintain similar script, "standard Javascript". Rules 
and standard are maintained by ECMASCRIPT. Recent version of JS is "ES15'. 
-There are lot of otehr technologies or libraties that are popular to make js more easy. They are JQuery,React, Vue,backbone,Next,Nest,Express,
Node etc...

How to Include JS into HTML ?
-JS can be included to HTML using two ways 
    1.internal Javascript: It is used to add  JS to HTML withing "script" element.
    2.External Javascript: It is used to add external Js into HTML using "script" element with "src" attribue.
        ex-<script src="path"></script>
-we can debug JS code uisng console. 'console' is part of the browswer developer tools witch are used to debug and understand the web page well
'console' can run JS. so, initially will print in console untl JS basic were done.

Comments in Javascript:
-In Javascript there are two types of comments such as 
    -Single line comments: // comments followed by double slash
    -Multi line comments: comments with /* and */

Variables in Javascript:
-Variables or Identifiers are used to assign/store different values. They are defined using "var","let"and "const".
    1.Var:
    -var is a funciton scoped variable which is used throughout the funciton.it can be redeclared, reassigned and alos can be used 
    before declaration.
    -it is old way of declaring variable in Javascript.
    2.Let & Const:
    -Let and const are block scoped variables. They can be used only in the block. They can not be redeclared and are not possible 
    to access before declaration. let cna reassign but const cannot.

    e.g:console.log("Hello....")
        console.log(a);
        //using Var
        var a=25;
        console.log(a);
        var a=16;//redeclare
        a=50;//reassigned
        console.log(a);
        //console.log(b); Error can not use before inicialization.
        //using let and const
        let b=10;
        console.log(b);
        b=560;
        console.log(b);


        const c=40;
        //c=560 constat variable cannot be changed
        console.log(c);

Basic Function in JS :
-There are three basic funcions default provided by browser are 
  i. alert(): it is used to show an alert message
            ex: alert("Some Message")
  ii.confirm(): it is used to get confirmation from user and return ture or false.
                ex: confirm("Are you Sure ?")
  iii. prompt(): it is used to get user input. it always receives them as string.
                ex: prompt("Enter Data")

Question:
1.What is the diffrence between var,let and const.
Answer: 

2.Explain the use and advantages of Javascript.
3.Write a Javascript code to print multiplication o two numbers in internal amd external Js.

Datatypes in Javascript:
- Javascript is a dynamic typing programming languages.it means in Js, there is no fixed datatype for a variable. Based on the value 
  it stores it changes the datatype.
-The datatypes are divided in to two types:
    1.Primitive Datatypes
    2.Non Primitive Datatypes / Reference Datatypes

1.Primitive Datatypes: 
-These datatypes stores the value and uses only value for comparision.
-Most widely used Primitive datatypes are number, string ,boolean,undefined,null.

2.Non Primitive Datatypes:
-These datatypes stores the reference with elements, also called reference datatypes.
-Most widely used non Primitive datatypes are funcions, arrays, objects.

    i.number: number is the datatypes assigned to any numerical  values.
              ex-let a=123 , b=Infinity ,c= -Infinity;
              -In case of expected numer but got another value, it ist considered as NaN(Not a Number).
              ex-5-"snehasish" (NaN)
              -Type of NaN(Not a Number) is  number.
              -Numbers have some default funcion such as
                i.toFixed(): it check the value after the decimal and if number is greater than 5 than increse the last digit by 1.
                            Ex-let a=14.258369
                                console.log(a.toFixed(2)) //14.26
                ii.toPrecision():it check the value from the first position and if number is greater than 5 than increse the last digit by 1
                                Ex-let a=14.258369
                                console.log(a.toPrecision(3)) //14.3
                iii.toString(): it convert a given  number to binary if value is 2 if 8 octal and if 16 hexadecimal
                                Ex- let a=25;
                                    console.log(a.toString(2)) //11001
                There are some Math methods in JS
                iv.sqrt(): console.log(Math.sqrt(25))//5  square root of an numeber
                v. cbrt(): console.log(Math.cbrt(8))//2   cuberoot of a number
                vi.pow(): console.log(Math.pow(2,3))//8     power of a number
                vii.abs(): console.log(Math.abs(-10))//10   give absolute number
                viii.ceil():console.log(Math.ceil(1.4))//2  round up the numeber to next number
                ix.floor():console.log(Math.floor(-1.2))//-2    round up the number to previous number
                x.round():console.log(Math.round(2.53))//3  give round number if less than 5 same number and greater than 5 next number.
                xi.random():console.log(Math.random())      generate numbers between 0 to 1.
                xii.min():console.log(Math.min(1,2,3,4)) //1 min value between numbers
                xiii.max():console.log(Math.max(6,3,8,9))    //9 max value between numbers

Q. Write a JS code to Print random number between 1 to 6 on each time.      
    Answer: cosole.log(Math.ceil(Math.random()*6));
Q.Write a Js code to print random number between 7 to 14 on each time.
    Answer: console.log(Math.round(Math.random()*7+7));
            console.log(Math.round((Math.random()+1)*7));

Q.Explain datatypes in Js and Explain dynamic datatyping.
    Answer: There are 5 types of datatype in Javascript number,string,null,undefined,boolean and there three non Primitive datatype arrays,funcion,objects.
            -In Javascript there is no predefined types of datatype like in other programming language you have to just give let,var or const and it will 
             automatically takes its value type so Javascript is dynamic datatyping.

Q.Explain methods toFixed(),toPrecision() and toString().
    Answer: toFixed() is used to  check the value after the decimal and if number is greater than 5 than increse the last digit by 1.
            -toPrecision() is used to check the value from the first position and if number is greater than 5 than increse the last digit by 1
            -toString() is used to convert a given  number to binary if base value is 2 ,if 8 octal and if 16 hexadecimal

Q.Wwrite a JS program to generate 4 digit random OTP.
    Answer:console.log(Math.round(Math.random()*9000+1000))

Strings: 
-strings are used to store alphanmerical values (alpahbets+numbers). strings can be respresented in three ways 
    i. single or double quotes:
        let a="raj" , b='snehasish';
        console.log(typeof a) //String
    -There is no diffrence between single and double quotes in Javascript based on uses or nested string we use each one.

    ii.Backticks:backtiks usaes for strings in js results dyanmic strings which can print dyanmic values wihtout breaking the strings.
    These type of strings re also called "temlate string".
        let cost=20;
        console.log(`The cost of an apple is ${cost}`);

There are so many default funcion for strings such as:
    1.str.length()--returns the total no of characters in given string.
    2.str.toUppercase()--returns the upercase converted String.
    3.str.toLowercase()--returns the lowercase converted string.
    4.str.startsWith(str1)--rerurns true or false weather str is starting with str1 or not 
    5.str.endsWith(str1)--returns true of false wheather str is ending with str1 or not
    6.str.indexOf('character')--returns index of first occurance of given character.
    7.str.lastIndexOf('character')--returns index of last occurance of given character.
    8.str.charAtr(index)--returns the character as specified index.
    9.str.replace(oldstr,newstr)--replaces first occurance of old string with new string.
    10.str.replaceAll(oldstr,newstr)--replaces all occurances of old stirng to new string.
    11.str.concat(str1,str2)--returns the concatination of two strings (str1+str2).
    12.str.trim()--uses to remove spaces from starting and ending of string.
    13.str.split('delimeter')--cut the string based on the delimeter you give and return a array.


boolean: it is used to stroe data in true or false. ture represents i1 and false represents 0;

undefined: 'undefined' is the value assigned to the variable which are declared but not initialized.
        -By default, Js takes all the variablees and function declarations to the top of the promfram callded ""Hoisting".
         so thats why default values of those variables are 'undefined'.
        -undefined and not defined is not same . 'not-defined' is an derror to not existance of a variable.

null: null is the value of variables's ending. it is intentional absece of value. Whenever we want to gives 
      variables with no value we can declare them as null.

Q.What is template literal, Explain with an example.
Q.Write a JS code to print number of letter 'p' in given syntax. "Poppins popup at popey's hand"
Q.what is the diffrence between null and undefined.
Q.what is hoisting.